# 2 Thessalonians 2

[[2Th-01|2 Thessalonians - Chapter 1 ]] | [[2 Thessalonians]] | [[2Th-03|2 Thessalonians - Chapter 3 ]]
***

###### v1
As to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we beg you, brothers and sisters,
###### v2
not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by spirit or by word or by letter, as though from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord is already here.
###### v3
Let no one deceive you in any way; for that day will not come unless the rebellion comes first and the lawless one is revealed, the one destined for destruction.
###### v4
He opposes and exalts himself above every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, declaring himself to be God.
###### v5
Do you not remember that I told you these things when I was still with you?
###### v6
And you know what is now restraining him, so that he may be revealed when his time comes.
###### v7
For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work, but only until the one who now restrains it is removed.
###### v8
And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will destroy with the breath of his mouth, annihilating him by the manifestation of his coming.
###### v9
The coming of the lawless one is apparent in the working of Satan, who uses all power, signs, lying wonders,
###### v10
and every kind of wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and so be saved.
###### v11
For this reason God sends them a powerful delusion, leading them to believe what is false,
###### v12
so that all who have not believed the truth but took pleasure in unrighteousness will be condemned.
###### v13
But we must always give thanks to God for you, brothers and sisters beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and through belief in the truth.
###### v14
For this purpose he called you through our proclamation of the good news, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
###### v15
So then, brothers and sisters, stand firm and hold fast to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by word of mouth or by our letter.
###### v16
Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and through grace gave us eternal comfort and good hope,
###### v17
comfort your hearts and strengthen them in every good work and word.

***

[[2Th-01|2 Thessalonians - Chapter 1 ]] | [[2 Thessalonians]] | [[2Th-03|2 Thessalonians - Chapter 3 ]]
