# 1 Kings 10

[[1Ki-09|1 Kings - Chapter 9 ]] | [[1 Kings]] | [[1Ki-11|1 Kings - Chapter 11 ]]
***

###### v1
When the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon (fame due to the name of the LORD), she came to test him with hard questions.
###### v2
She came to Jerusalem with a very great retinue, with camels bearing spices, and very much gold, and precious stones; and when she came to Solomon, she told him all that was on her mind.
###### v3
Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing hidden from the king that he could not explain to her.
###### v4
When the queen of Sheba had observed all the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built,
###### v5
the food of his table, the seating of his officials, and the attendance of his servants, their clothing, his valets, and his burnt offerings that he offered at the house of the LORD, there was no more spirit in her.
###### v6
So she said to the king, "The report was true that I heard in my own land of your accomplishments and of your wisdom,
###### v7
but I did not believe the reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it. Not even half had been told me; your wisdom and prosperity far surpass the report that I had heard.
###### v8
Happy are your wives! Happy are these your servants, who continually attend you and hear your wisdom!
###### v9
Blessed be the LORD your God, who has delighted in you and set you on the throne of Israel! Because the LORD loved Israel forever, he has made you king to execute justice and righteousness."
###### v10
Then she gave the king one hundred twenty talents of gold, a great quantity of spices, and precious stones; never again did spices come in such quantity as that which the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
###### v11
Moreover, the fleet of Hiram, which carried gold from Ophir, brought from Ophir a great quantity of almug wood and precious stones.
###### v12
From the almug wood the king made supports for the house of the LORD, and for the king's house, lyres also and harps for the singers; no such almug wood has come or been seen to this day.
###### v13
Meanwhile King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba every desire that she expressed, as well as what he gave her out of Solomon's royal bounty. Then she returned to her own land, with her servants.
###### v14
The weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred sixty-six talents of gold,
###### v15
besides that which came from the traders and from the business of the merchants, and from all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land.
###### v16
King Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold; six hundred shekels of gold went into each large shield.
###### v17
He made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three minas of gold went into each shield; and the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.
###### v18
The king also made a great ivory throne, and overlaid it with the finest gold.
###### v19
The throne had six steps. The top of the throne was rounded in the back, and on each side of the seat were arm rests and two lions standing beside the arm rests,
###### v20
while twelve lions were standing, one on each end of a step on the six steps. Nothing like it was ever made in any kingdom.
###### v21
All King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold; none were of silver-- it was not considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
###### v22
For the king had a fleet of ships of Tarshish at sea with the fleet of Hiram. Once every three years the fleet of ships of Tarshish used to come bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.
###### v23
Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
###### v24
The whole earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put into his mind.
###### v25
Every one of them brought a present, objects of silver and gold, garments, weaponry, spices, horses, and mules, so much year by year.
###### v26
Solomon gathered together chariots and horses; he had fourteen hundred chariots and twelve thousand horses, which he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
###### v27
The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones, and he made cedars as numerous as the sycamores of the Shephelah.
###### v28
Solomon's import of horses was from Egypt and Kue, and the king's traders received them from Kue at a price.
###### v29
A chariot could be imported from Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty; so through the king's traders they were exported to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram.

***

[[1Ki-09|1 Kings - Chapter 9 ]] | [[1 Kings]] | [[1Ki-11|1 Kings - Chapter 11 ]]
