# Psalm 147

[[Psa-146|Psalm - Chapter 146 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-148|Psalm - Chapter 148 ]]
***

###### v1
Praise the LORD! How good it is to sing praises to our God; for he is gracious, and a song of praise is fitting.
###### v2
The LORD builds up Jerusalem; he gathers the outcasts of Israel.
###### v3
He heals the brokenhearted, and binds up their wounds.
###### v4
He determines the number of the stars; he gives to all of them their names.
###### v5
Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; his understanding is beyond measure.
###### v6
The LORD lifts up the downtrodden; he casts the wicked to the ground.
###### v7
Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; make melody to our God on the lyre.
###### v8
He covers the heavens with clouds, prepares rain for the earth, makes grass grow on the hills.
###### v9
He gives to the animals their food, and to the young ravens when they cry.
###### v10
His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the speed of a runner;
###### v11
but the LORD takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love.
###### v12
Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion!
###### v13
For he strengthens the bars of your gates; he blesses your children within you.
###### v14
He grants peace within your borders; he fills you with the finest of wheat.
###### v15
He sends out his command to the earth; his word runs swiftly.
###### v16
He gives snow like wool; he scatters frost like ashes.
###### v17
He hurls down hail like crumbs-- who can stand before his cold?
###### v18
He sends out his word, and melts them; he makes his wind blow, and the waters flow.
###### v19
He declares his word to Jacob, his statutes and ordinances to Israel.
###### v20
He has not dealt thus with any other nation; they do not know his ordinances. Praise the LORD!

***

[[Psa-146|Psalm - Chapter 146 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-148|Psalm - Chapter 148 ]]
