# Psalm 139

[[Psa-138|Psalm - Chapter 138 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-140|Psalm - Chapter 140 ]]
***

###### v1
O LORD, you have searched me and known me.
###### v2
You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from far away.
###### v3
You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
###### v4
Even before a word is on my tongue, O LORD, you know it completely.
###### v5
You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me.
###### v6
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is so high that I cannot attain it.
###### v7
Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence?
###### v8
If I ascend to heaven, you are there; if I make my bed in Sheol, you are there.
###### v9
If I take the wings of the morning and settle at the farthest limits of the sea,
###### v10
even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me fast.
###### v11
If I say, "Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light around me become night,"
###### v12
even the darkness is not dark to you; the night is as bright as the day, for darkness is as light to you.
###### v13
For it was you who formed my inward parts; you knit me together in my mother's womb.
###### v14
I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; that I know very well.
###### v15
My frame was not hidden from you, when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth.
###### v16
Your eyes beheld my unformed substance. In your book were written all the days that were formed for me, when none of them as yet existed.
###### v17
How weighty to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them!
###### v18
I try to count them-- they are more than the sand; I come to the end-- I am still with you.
###### v19
O that you would kill the wicked, O God, and that the bloodthirsty would depart from me--
###### v20
those who speak of you maliciously, and lift themselves up against you for evil!
###### v21
Do I not hate those who hate you, O LORD? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you?
###### v22
I hate them with perfect hatred; I count them my enemies.
###### v23
Search me, O God, and know my heart; test me and know my thoughts.
###### v24
See if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.

***

[[Psa-138|Psalm - Chapter 138 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-140|Psalm - Chapter 140 ]]
