# Psalm 135

[[Psa-134|Psalm - Chapter 134 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-136|Psalm - Chapter 136 ]]
***

###### v1
Praise the LORD! Praise the name of the LORD; give praise, O servants of the LORD,
###### v2
you that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God.
###### v3
Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; sing to his name, for he is gracious.
###### v4
For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel as his own possession.
###### v5
For I know that the LORD is great; our Lord is above all gods.
###### v6
Whatever the LORD pleases he does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps.
###### v7
He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth; he makes lightnings for the rain and brings out the wind from his storehouses.
###### v8
He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, both human beings and animals;
###### v9
he sent signs and wonders into your midst, O Egypt, against Pharaoh and all his servants.
###### v10
He struck down many nations and killed mighty kings--
###### v11
Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan--
###### v12
and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to his people Israel.
###### v13
Your name, O LORD, endures forever, your renown, O LORD, throughout all ages.
###### v14
For the LORD will vindicate his people, and have compassion on his servants.
###### v15
The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands.
###### v16
They have mouths, but they do not speak; they have eyes, but they do not see;
###### v17
they have ears, but they do not hear, and there is no breath in their mouths.
###### v18
Those who make them and all who trust them shall become like them.
###### v19
O house of Israel, bless the LORD! O house of Aaron, bless the LORD!
###### v20
O house of Levi, bless the LORD! You that fear the LORD, bless the LORD!
###### v21
Blessed be the LORD from Zion, he who resides in Jerusalem. Praise the LORD!

***

[[Psa-134|Psalm - Chapter 134 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-136|Psalm - Chapter 136 ]]
