# Psalm 115

[[Psa-114|Psalm - Chapter 114 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-116|Psalm - Chapter 116 ]]
***

###### v1
Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to your name give glory, for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness.
###### v2
Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?"
###### v3
Our God is in the heavens; he does whatever he pleases.
###### v4
Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands.
###### v5
They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see.
###### v6
They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell.
###### v7
They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; they make no sound in their throats.
###### v8
Those who make them are like them; so are all who trust in them.
###### v9
O Israel, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
###### v10
O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
###### v11
You who fear the LORD, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
###### v12
The LORD has been mindful of us; he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron;
###### v13
he will bless those who fear the LORD, both small and great.
###### v14
May the LORD give you increase, both you and your children.
###### v15
May you be blessed by the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
###### v16
The heavens are the LORD's heavens, but the earth he has given to human beings.
###### v17
The dead do not praise the LORD, nor do any that go down into silence.
###### v18
But we will bless the LORD from this time on and forevermore. Praise the LORD!

***

[[Psa-114|Psalm - Chapter 114 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-116|Psalm - Chapter 116 ]]
