# Psalm 107

[[Psa-106|Psalm - Chapter 106 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-108|Psalm - Chapter 108 ]]
***

###### v1
O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever.
###### v2
Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, those he redeemed from trouble
###### v3
and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
###### v4
Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to an inhabited town;
###### v5
hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them.
###### v6
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress;
###### v7
he led them by a straight way, until they reached an inhabited town.
###### v8
Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wonderful works to humankind.
###### v9
For he satisfies the thirsty, and the hungry he fills with good things.
###### v10
Some sat in darkness and in gloom, prisoners in misery and in irons,
###### v11
for they had rebelled against the words of God, and spurned the counsel of the Most High.
###### v12
Their hearts were bowed down with hard labor; they fell down, with no one to help.
###### v13
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them from their distress;
###### v14
he brought them out of darkness and gloom, and broke their bonds asunder.
###### v15
Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wonderful works to humankind.
###### v16
For he shatters the doors of bronze, and cuts in two the bars of iron.
###### v17
Some were sick through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities endured affliction;
###### v18
they loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death.
###### v19
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them from their distress;
###### v20
he sent out his word and healed them, and delivered them from destruction.
###### v21
Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wonderful works to humankind.
###### v22
And let them offer thanksgiving sacrifices, and tell of his deeds with songs of joy.
###### v23
Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the mighty waters;
###### v24
they saw the deeds of the LORD, his wondrous works in the deep.
###### v25
For he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea.
###### v26
They mounted up to heaven, they went down to the depths; their courage melted away in their calamity;
###### v27
they reeled and staggered like drunkards, and were at their wits' end.
###### v28
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he brought them out from their distress;
###### v29
he made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed.
###### v30
Then they were glad because they had quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven.
###### v31
Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wonderful works to humankind.
###### v32
Let them extol him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
###### v33
He turns rivers into a desert, springs of water into thirsty ground,
###### v34
a fruitful land into a salty waste, because of the wickedness of its inhabitants.
###### v35
He turns a desert into pools of water, a parched land into springs of water.
###### v36
And there he lets the hungry live, and they establish a town to live in;
###### v37
they sow fields, and plant vineyards, and get a fruitful yield.
###### v38
By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their cattle decrease.
###### v39
When they are diminished and brought low through oppression, trouble, and sorrow,
###### v40
he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in trackless wastes;
###### v41
but he raises up the needy out of distress, and makes their families like flocks.
###### v42
The upright see it and are glad; and all wickedness stops its mouth.
###### v43
Let those who are wise give heed to these things, and consider the steadfast love of the LORD.

***

[[Psa-106|Psalm - Chapter 106 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-108|Psalm - Chapter 108 ]]
