# Psalm 106

[[Psa-105|Psalm - Chapter 105 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-107|Psalm - Chapter 107 ]]
***

###### v1
Praise the LORD! O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever.
###### v2
Who can utter the mighty doings of the LORD, or declare all his praise?
###### v3
Happy are those who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times.
###### v4
Remember me, O LORD, when you show favor to your people; help me when you deliver them;
###### v5
that I may see the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory in your heritage.
###### v6
Both we and our ancestors have sinned; we have committed iniquity, have done wickedly.
###### v7
Our ancestors, when they were in Egypt, did not consider your wonderful works; they did not remember the abundance of your steadfast love, but rebelled against the Most High at the Red Sea.
###### v8
Yet he saved them for his name's sake, so that he might make known his mighty power.
###### v9
He rebuked the Red Sea, and it became dry; he led them through the deep as through a desert.
###### v10
So he saved them from the hand of the foe, and delivered them from the hand of the enemy.
###### v11
The waters covered their adversaries; not one of them was left.
###### v12
Then they believed his words; they sang his praise.
###### v13
But they soon forgot his works; they did not wait for his counsel.
###### v14
But they had a wanton craving in the wilderness, and put God to the test in the desert;
###### v15
he gave them what they asked, but sent a wasting disease among them.
###### v16
They were jealous of Moses in the camp, and of Aaron, the holy one of the LORD.
###### v17
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the faction of Abiram.
###### v18
Fire also broke out in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
###### v19
They made a calf at Horeb and worshiped a cast image.
###### v20
They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass.
###### v21
They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt,
###### v22
wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea.
###### v23
Therefore he said he would destroy them-- had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him, to turn away his wrath from destroying them.
###### v24
Then they despised the pleasant land, having no faith in his promise.
###### v25
They grumbled in their tents, and did not obey the voice of the LORD.
###### v26
Therefore he raised his hand and swore to them that he would make them fall in the wilderness,
###### v27
and would disperse their descendants among the nations, scattering them over the lands.
###### v28
Then they attached themselves to the Baal of Peor, and ate sacrifices offered to the dead;
###### v29
they provoked the LORD to anger with their deeds, and a plague broke out among them.
###### v30
Then Phinehas stood up and interceded, and the plague was stopped.
###### v31
And that has been reckoned to him as righteousness from generation to generation forever.
###### v32
They angered the LORD at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses on their account;
###### v33
for they made his spirit bitter, and he spoke words that were rash.
###### v34
They did not destroy the peoples, as the LORD commanded them,
###### v35
but they mingled with the nations and learned to do as they did.
###### v36
They served their idols, which became a snare to them.
###### v37
They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons;
###### v38
they poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; and the land was polluted with blood.
###### v39
Thus they became unclean by their acts, and prostituted themselves in their doings.
###### v40
Then the anger of the LORD was kindled against his people, and he abhorred his heritage;
###### v41
he gave them into the hand of the nations, so that those who hated them ruled over them.
###### v42
Their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their power.
###### v43
Many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their purposes, and were brought low through their iniquity.
###### v44
Nevertheless he regarded their distress when he heard their cry.
###### v45
For their sake he remembered his covenant, and showed compassion according to the abundance of his steadfast love.
###### v46
He caused them to be pitied by all who held them captive.
###### v47
Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise.
###### v48
Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. And let all the people say, "Amen." Praise the LORD!

***

[[Psa-105|Psalm - Chapter 105 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-107|Psalm - Chapter 107 ]]
