# Psalm 104

[[Psa-103|Psalm - Chapter 103 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-105|Psalm - Chapter 105 ]]
***

###### v1
Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, you are very great. You are clothed with honor and majesty,
###### v2
wrapped in light as with a garment. You stretch out the heavens like a tent,
###### v3
you set the beams of your chambers on the waters, you make the clouds your chariot, you ride on the wings of the wind,
###### v4
you make the winds your messengers, fire and flame your ministers.
###### v5
You set the earth on its foundations, so that it shall never be shaken.
###### v6
You cover it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains.
###### v7
At your rebuke they flee; at the sound of your thunder they take to flight.
###### v8
They rose up to the mountains, ran down to the valleys to the place that you appointed for them.
###### v9
You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth.
###### v10
You make springs gush forth in the valleys; they flow between the hills,
###### v11
giving drink to every wild animal; the wild asses quench their thirst.
###### v12
By the streams the birds of the air have their habitation; they sing among the branches.
###### v13
From your lofty abode you water the mountains; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work.
###### v14
You cause the grass to grow for the cattle, and plants for people to use, to bring forth food from the earth,
###### v15
and wine to gladden the human heart, oil to make the face shine, and bread to strengthen the human heart.
###### v16
The trees of the LORD are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted.
###### v17
In them the birds build their nests; the stork has its home in the fir trees.
###### v18
The high mountains are for the wild goats; the rocks are a refuge for the coneys.
###### v19
You have made the moon to mark the seasons; the sun knows its time for setting.
###### v20
You make darkness, and it is night, when all the animals of the forest come creeping out.
###### v21
The young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God.
###### v22
When the sun rises, they withdraw and lie down in their dens.
###### v23
People go out to their work and to their labor until the evening.
###### v24
O LORD, how manifold are your works! In wisdom you have made them all; the earth is full of your creatures.
###### v25
Yonder is the sea, great and wide, creeping things innumerable are there, living things both small and great.
###### v26
There go the ships, and Leviathan that you formed to sport in it.
###### v27
These all look to you to give them their food in due season;
###### v28
when you give to them, they gather it up; when you open your hand, they are filled with good things.
###### v29
When you hide your face, they are dismayed; when you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust.
###### v30
When you send forth your spirit, they are created; and you renew the face of the ground.
###### v31
May the glory of the LORD endure forever; may the LORD rejoice in his works--
###### v32
who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke.
###### v33
I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have being.
###### v34
May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the LORD.
###### v35
Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless the LORD, O my soul. Praise the LORD!

***

[[Psa-103|Psalm - Chapter 103 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-105|Psalm - Chapter 105 ]]
