# Psalm 109

[[Psa-108|Psalm - Chapter 108 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-110|Psalm - Chapter 110 ]]
***

###### v1
Do not be silent, O God of my praise.
###### v2
For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me, speaking against me with lying tongues.
###### v3
They beset me with words of hate, and attack me without cause.
###### v4
In return for my love they accuse me, even while I make prayer for them.
###### v5
So they reward me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
###### v6
They say, "Appoint a wicked man against him; let an accuser stand on his right.
###### v7
When he is tried, let him be found guilty; let his prayer be counted as sin.
###### v8
May his days be few; may another seize his position.
###### v9
May his children be orphans, and his wife a widow.
###### v10
May his children wander about and beg; may they be driven out of the ruins they inhabit.
###### v11
May the creditor seize all that he has; may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil.
###### v12
May there be no one to do him a kindness, nor anyone to pity his orphaned children.
###### v13
May his posterity be cut off; may his name be blotted out in the second generation.
###### v14
May the iniquity of his father be remembered before the LORD, and do not let the sin of his mother be blotted out.
###### v15
Let them be before the LORD continually, and may his memory be cut off from the earth.
###### v16
For he did not remember to show kindness, but pursued the poor and needy and the brokenhearted to their death.
###### v17
He loved to curse; let curses come on him. He did not like blessing; may it be far from him.
###### v18
He clothed himself with cursing as his coat, may it soak into his body like water, like oil into his bones.
###### v19
May it be like a garment that he wraps around himself, like a belt that he wears every day."
###### v20
May that be the reward of my accusers from the LORD, of those who speak evil against my life.
###### v21
But you, O LORD my Lord, act on my behalf for your name's sake; because your steadfast love is good, deliver me.
###### v22
For I am poor and needy, and my heart is pierced within me.
###### v23
I am gone like a shadow at evening; I am shaken off like a locust.
###### v24
My knees are weak through fasting; my body has become gaunt.
###### v25
I am an object of scorn to my accusers; when they see me, they shake their heads.
###### v26
Help me, O LORD my God! Save me according to your steadfast love.
###### v27
Let them know that this is your hand; you, O LORD, have done it.
###### v28
Let them curse, but you will bless. Let my assailants be put to shame; may your servant be glad.
###### v29
May my accusers be clothed with dishonor; may they be wrapped in their own shame as in a mantle.
###### v30
With my mouth I will give great thanks to the LORD; I will praise him in the midst of the throng.
###### v31
For he stands at the right hand of the needy, to save them from those who would condemn them to death.

***

[[Psa-108|Psalm - Chapter 108 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-110|Psalm - Chapter 110 ]]
