# Psalm 116

[[Psa-115|Psalm - Chapter 115 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-117|Psalm - Chapter 117 ]]
***

###### v1
I love the LORD, because he has heard my voice and my supplications.
###### v2
Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.
###### v3
The snares of death encompassed me; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me; I suffered distress and anguish.
###### v4
Then I called on the name of the LORD: "O LORD, I pray, save my life!"
###### v5
Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; our God is merciful.
###### v6
The LORD protects the simple; when I was brought low, he saved me.
###### v7
Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the LORD has dealt bountifully with you.
###### v8
For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling.
###### v9
I walk before the LORD in the land of the living.
###### v10
I kept my faith, even when I said, "I am greatly afflicted";
###### v11
I said in my consternation, "Everyone is a liar."
###### v12
What shall I return to the LORD for all his bounty to me?
###### v13
I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD,
###### v14
I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people.
###### v15
Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his faithful ones.
###### v16
O LORD, I am your servant; I am your servant, the child of your serving girl. You have loosed my bonds.
###### v17
I will offer to you a thanksgiving sacrifice and call on the name of the LORD.
###### v18
I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people,
###### v19
in the courts of the house of the LORD, in your midst, O Jerusalem. Praise the LORD!

***

[[Psa-115|Psalm - Chapter 115 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-117|Psalm - Chapter 117 ]]
