# Psalm 132

[[Psa-131|Psalm - Chapter 131 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-133|Psalm - Chapter 133 ]]
***

###### v1
O LORD, remember in David's favor all the hardships he endured;
###### v2
how he swore to the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob,
###### v3
"I will not enter my house or get into my bed;
###### v4
I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids,
###### v5
until I find a place for the LORD, a dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob."
###### v6
We heard of it in Ephrathah; we found it in the fields of Jaar.
###### v7
"Let us go to his dwelling place; let us worship at his footstool."
###### v8
Rise up, O LORD, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might.
###### v9
Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your faithful shout for joy.
###### v10
For your servant David's sake do not turn away the face of your anointed one.
###### v11
The LORD swore to David a sure oath from which he will not turn back: "One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne.
###### v12
If your sons keep my covenant and my decrees that I shall teach them, their sons also, forevermore, shall sit on your throne."
###### v13
For the LORD has chosen Zion; he has desired it for his habitation:
###### v14
"This is my resting place forever; here I will reside, for I have desired it.
###### v15
I will abundantly bless its provisions; I will satisfy its poor with bread.
###### v16
Its priests I will clothe with salvation, and its faithful will shout for joy.
###### v17
There I will cause a horn to sprout up for David; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed one.
###### v18
His enemies I will clothe with disgrace, but on him, his crown will gleam."

***

[[Psa-131|Psalm - Chapter 131 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-133|Psalm - Chapter 133 ]]
