# Psalm 144

[[Psa-143|Psalm - Chapter 143 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-145|Psalm - Chapter 145 ]]
***

###### v1
Blessed be the LORD, my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle;
###### v2
my rock and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield, in whom I take refuge, who subdues the peoples under me.
###### v3
O LORD, what are human beings that you regard them, or mortals that you think of them?
###### v4
They are like a breath; their days are like a passing shadow.
###### v5
Bow your heavens, O LORD, and come down; touch the mountains so that they smoke.
###### v6
Make the lightning flash and scatter them; send out your arrows and rout them.
###### v7
Stretch out your hand from on high; set me free and rescue me from the mighty waters, from the hand of aliens,
###### v8
whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hands are false.
###### v9
I will sing a new song to you, O God; upon a ten-stringed harp I will play to you,
###### v10
the one who gives victory to kings, who rescues his servant David.
###### v11
Rescue me from the cruel sword, and deliver me from the hand of aliens, whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hands are false.
###### v12
May our sons in their youth be like plants full grown, our daughters like corner pillars, cut for the building of a palace.
###### v13
May our barns be filled, with produce of every kind; may our sheep increase by thousands, by tens of thousands in our fields,
###### v14
and may our cattle be heavy with young. May there be no breach in the walls, no exile, and no cry of distress in our streets.
###### v15
Happy are the people to whom such blessings fall; happy are the people whose God is the LORD.

***

[[Psa-143|Psalm - Chapter 143 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-145|Psalm - Chapter 145 ]]
