# Psalm 103

[[Psa-102|Psalm - Chapter 102 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-104|Psalm - Chapter 104 ]]
***

###### v1
Bless the LORD, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name.
###### v2
Bless the LORD, O my soul, and do not forget all his benefits--
###### v3
who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases,
###### v4
who redeems your life from the Pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,
###### v5
who satisfies you with good as long as you live so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.
###### v6
The LORD works vindication and justice for all who are oppressed.
###### v7
He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel.
###### v8
The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
###### v9
He will not always accuse, nor will he keep his anger forever.
###### v10
He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities.
###### v11
For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him;
###### v12
as far as the east is from the west, so far he removes our transgressions from us.
###### v13
As a father has compassion for his children, so the LORD has compassion for those who fear him.
###### v14
For he knows how we were made; he remembers that we are dust.
###### v15
As for mortals, their days are like grass; they flourish like a flower of the field;
###### v16
for the wind passes over it, and it is gone, and its place knows it no more.
###### v17
But the steadfast love of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children,
###### v18
to those who keep his covenant and remember to do his commandments.
###### v19
The LORD has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all.
###### v20
Bless the LORD, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his bidding, obedient to his spoken word.
###### v21
Bless the LORD, all his hosts, his ministers that do his will.
###### v22
Bless the LORD, all his works, in all places of his dominion. Bless the LORD, O my soul.

***

[[Psa-102|Psalm - Chapter 102 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-104|Psalm - Chapter 104 ]]
