# Psalm 145

[[Psa-144|Psalm - Chapter 144 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-146|Psalm - Chapter 146 ]]
***

###### v1
I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever.
###### v2
Every day I will bless you, and praise your name forever and ever.
###### v3
Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; his greatness is unsearchable.
###### v4
One generation shall laud your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts.
###### v5
On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate.
###### v6
The might of your awesome deeds shall be proclaimed, and I will declare your greatness.
###### v7
They shall celebrate the fame of your abundant goodness, and shall sing aloud of your righteousness.
###### v8
The LORD is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
###### v9
The LORD is good to all, and his compassion is over all that he has made.
###### v10
All your works shall give thanks to you, O LORD, and all your faithful shall bless you.
###### v11
They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom, and tell of your power,
###### v12
to make known to all people your mighty deeds, and the glorious splendor of your kingdom.
###### v13
Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. The LORD is faithful in all his words, and gracious in all his deeds.
###### v14
The LORD upholds all who are falling, and raises up all who are bowed down.
###### v15
The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season.
###### v16
You open your hand, satisfying the desire of every living thing.
###### v17
The LORD is just in all his ways, and kind in all his doings.
###### v18
The LORD is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.
###### v19
He fulfills the desire of all who fear him; he also hears their cry, and saves them.
###### v20
The LORD watches over all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy.
###### v21
My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD, and all flesh will bless his holy name forever and ever.

***

[[Psa-144|Psalm - Chapter 144 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-146|Psalm - Chapter 146 ]]
