# Psalm 118

[[Psa-117|Psalm - Chapter 117 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-119|Psalm - Chapter 119 ]]
***

###### v1
O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; his steadfast love endures forever!
###### v2
Let Israel say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
###### v3
Let the house of Aaron say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
###### v4
Let those who fear the LORD say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
###### v5
Out of my distress I called on the LORD; the LORD answered me and set me in a broad place.
###### v6
With the LORD on my side I do not fear. What can mortals do to me?
###### v7
The LORD is on my side to help me; I shall look in triumph on those who hate me.
###### v8
It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to put confidence in mortals.
###### v9
It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to put confidence in princes.
###### v10
All nations surrounded me; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
###### v11
They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
###### v12
They surrounded me like bees; they blazed like a fire of thorns; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
###### v13
I was pushed hard, so that I was falling, but the LORD helped me.
###### v14
The LORD is my strength and my might; he has become my salvation.
###### v15
There are glad songs of victory in the tents of the righteous: "The right hand of the LORD does valiantly;
###### v16
the right hand of the LORD is exalted; the right hand of the LORD does valiantly."
###### v17
I shall not die, but I shall live, and recount the deeds of the LORD.
###### v18
The LORD has punished me severely, but he did not give me over to death.
###### v19
Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD.
###### v20
This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter through it.
###### v21
I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation.
###### v22
The stone that the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone.
###### v23
This is the LORD's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes.
###### v24
This is the day that the LORD has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it.
###### v25
Save us, we beseech you, O LORD! O LORD, we beseech you, give us success!
###### v26
Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the LORD. We bless you from the house of the LORD.
###### v27
The LORD is God, and he has given us light. Bind the festal procession with branches, up to the horns of the altar.
###### v28
You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God, I will extol you.
###### v29
O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.

***

[[Psa-117|Psalm - Chapter 117 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-119|Psalm - Chapter 119 ]]
