# Psalm 105

[[Psa-104|Psalm - Chapter 104 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-106|Psalm - Chapter 106 ]]
***

###### v1
O give thanks to the LORD, call on his name, make known his deeds among the peoples.
###### v2
Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wonderful works.
###### v3
Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice.
###### v4
Seek the LORD and his strength; seek his presence continually.
###### v5
Remember the wonderful works he has done, his miracles, and the judgments he uttered,
###### v6
O offspring of his servant Abraham, children of Jacob, his chosen ones.
###### v7
He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
###### v8
He is mindful of his covenant forever, of the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,
###### v9
the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac,
###### v10
which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant,
###### v11
saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan as your portion for an inheritance."
###### v12
When they were few in number, of little account, and strangers in it,
###### v13
wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people,
###### v14
he allowed no one to oppress them; he rebuked kings on their account,
###### v15
saying, "Do not touch my anointed ones; do my prophets no harm."
###### v16
When he summoned famine against the land, and broke every staff of bread,
###### v17
he had sent a man ahead of them, Joseph, who was sold as a slave.
###### v18
His feet were hurt with fetters, his neck was put in a collar of iron;
###### v19
until what he had said came to pass, the word of the LORD kept testing him.
###### v20
The king sent and released him; the ruler of the peoples set him free.
###### v21
He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his possessions,
###### v22
to instruct his officials at his pleasure, and to teach his elders wisdom.
###### v23
Then Israel came to Egypt; Jacob lived as an alien in the land of Ham.
###### v24
And the LORD made his people very fruitful, and made them stronger than their foes,
###### v25
whose hearts he then turned to hate his people, to deal craftily with his servants.
###### v26
He sent his servant Moses, and Aaron whom he had chosen.
###### v27
They performed his signs among them, and miracles in the land of Ham.
###### v28
He sent darkness, and made the land dark; they rebelled against his words.
###### v29
He turned their waters into blood, and caused their fish to die.
###### v30
Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the chambers of their kings.
###### v31
He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, and gnats throughout their country.
###### v32
He gave them hail for rain, and lightning that flashed through their land.
###### v33
He struck their vines and fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country.
###### v34
He spoke, and the locusts came, and young locusts without number;
###### v35
they devoured all the vegetation in their land, and ate up the fruit of their ground.
###### v36
He struck down all the firstborn in their land, the first issue of all their strength.
###### v37
Then he brought Israel out with silver and gold, and there was no one among their tribes who stumbled.
###### v38
Egypt was glad when they departed, for dread of them had fallen upon it.
###### v39
He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light by night.
###### v40
They asked, and he brought quails, and gave them food from heaven in abundance.
###### v41
He opened the rock, and water gushed out; it flowed through the desert like a river.
###### v42
For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham, his servant.
###### v43
So he brought his people out with joy, his chosen ones with singing.
###### v44
He gave them the lands of the nations, and they took possession of the wealth of the peoples,
###### v45
that they might keep his statutes and observe his laws. Praise the LORD!

***

[[Psa-104|Psalm - Chapter 104 ]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Psa-106|Psalm - Chapter 106 ]]
