# 1 Chronicles 15

[[1Ch-14|1 Chronicles - Chapter 14 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-16|1 Chronicles - Chapter 16 ]]
***

###### v1
David built houses for himself in the city of David, and he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it.
###### v2
Then David commanded that no one but the Levites were to carry the ark of God, for the LORD had chosen them to carry the ark of the LORD and to minister to him forever.
###### v3
David assembled all Israel in Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the LORD to its place, which he had prepared for it.
###### v4
Then David gathered together the descendants of Aaron and the Levites:
###### v5
of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, with one hundred twenty of his kindred;
###### v6
of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, with two hundred twenty of his kindred;
###### v7
of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, with one hundred thirty of his kindred;
###### v8
of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, with two hundred of his kindred;
###### v9
of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, with eighty of his kindred;
###### v10
of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, with one hundred twelve of his kindred.
###### v11
David summoned the priests Zadok and Abiathar, and the Levites Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab.
###### v12
He said to them, "You are the heads of families of the Levites; sanctify yourselves, you and your kindred, so that you may bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel, to the place that I have prepared for it.
###### v13
Because you did not carry it the first time, the LORD our God burst out against us, because we did not give it proper care."
###### v14
So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel.
###### v15
And the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders with the poles, as Moses had commanded according to the word of the LORD.
###### v16
David also commanded the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their kindred as the singers to play on musical instruments, on harps and lyres and cymbals, to raise loud sounds of joy.
###### v17
So the Levites appointed Heman son of Joel; and of his kindred Asaph son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari, their kindred, Ethan son of Kushaiah;
###### v18
and with them their kindred of the second order, Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and the gatekeepers Obed-edom and Jeiel.
###### v19
The singers Heman, Asaph, and Ethan were to sound bronze cymbals;
###### v20
Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah were to play harps according to Alamoth;
###### v21
but Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah were to lead with lyres according to the Sheminith.
###### v22
Chenaniah, leader of the Levites in music, was to direct the music, for he understood it.
###### v23
Berechiah and Elkanah were to be gatekeepers for the ark.
###### v24
Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, were to blow the trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-edom and Jehiah also were to be gatekeepers for the ark.
###### v25
So David and the elders of Israel, and the commanders of the thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-edom with rejoicing.
###### v26
And because God helped the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the LORD, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams.
###### v27
David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as also were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the leader of the music of the singers; and David wore a linen ephod.
###### v28
So all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, to the sound of the horn, trumpets, and cymbals, and made loud music on harps and lyres.
###### v29
As the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the city of David, Michal daughter of Saul looked out of the window, and saw King David leaping and dancing; and she despised him in her heart.

***

[[1Ch-14|1 Chronicles - Chapter 14 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-16|1 Chronicles - Chapter 16 ]]
