# 1 Chronicles 6

[[1Ch-05|1 Chronicles - Chapter 5 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-07|1 Chronicles - Chapter 7 ]]
***

###### v1
The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
###### v2
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
###### v3
The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
###### v4
Eleazar became the father of Phinehas, Phinehas of Abishua,
###### v5
Abishua of Bukki, Bukki of Uzzi,
###### v6
Uzzi of Zerahiah, Zerahiah of Meraioth,
###### v7
Meraioth of Amariah, Amariah of Ahitub,
###### v8
Ahitub of Zadok, Zadok of Ahimaaz,
###### v9
Ahimaaz of Azariah, Azariah of Johanan,
###### v10
and Johanan of Azariah (it was he who served as priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem).
###### v11
Azariah became the father of Amariah, Amariah of Ahitub,
###### v12
Ahitub of Zadok, Zadok of Shallum,
###### v13
Shallum of Hilkiah, Hilkiah of Azariah,
###### v14
Azariah of Seraiah, Seraiah of Jehozadak;
###### v15
and Jehozadak went into exile when the LORD sent Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
###### v16
The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
###### v17
These are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
###### v18
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
###### v19
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites according to their ancestry.
###### v20
Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
###### v21
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
###### v22
The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
###### v23
Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,
###### v24
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
###### v25
The sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth,
###### v26
Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
###### v27
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
###### v28
The sons of Samuel: Joel his firstborn, the second Abijah.
###### v29
The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,
###### v30
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son.
###### v31
These are the men whom David put in charge of the service of song in the house of the LORD, after the ark came to rest there.
###### v32
They ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, until Solomon had built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem; and they performed their service in due order.
###### v33
These are the men who served; and their sons were: Of the Kohathites: Heman, the singer, son of Joel, son of Samuel,
###### v34
son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,
###### v35
son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai,
###### v36
son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,
###### v37
son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah,
###### v38
son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel;
###### v39
and his brother Asaph, who stood on his right, namely, Asaph son of Berechiah, son of Shimea,
###### v40
son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchijah,
###### v41
son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah,
###### v42
son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei,
###### v43
son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
###### v44
On the left were their kindred the sons of Merari: Ethan son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,
###### v45
son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah,
###### v46
son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer,
###### v47
son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi;
###### v48
and their kindred the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
###### v49
But Aaron and his sons made offerings on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense, doing all the work of the most holy place, to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
###### v50
These are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
###### v51
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
###### v52
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
###### v53
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
###### v54
These are their dwelling places according to their settlements within their borders: to the sons of Aaron of the families of Kohathites-- for the lot fell to them first--
###### v55
to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah and its surrounding pasture lands,
###### v56
but the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb son of Jephunneh.
###### v57
To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasture lands,
###### v58
Hilen with its pasture lands, Debir with its pasture lands,
###### v59
Ashan with its pasture lands, and Beth-shemesh with its pasture lands.
###### v60
From the tribe of Benjamin, Geba with its pasture lands, Alemeth with its pasture lands, and Anathoth with its pasture lands. All their towns throughout their families were thirteen.
###### v61
To the rest of the Kohathites were given by lot out of the family of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh, ten towns.
###### v62
To the Gershomites according to their families were allotted thirteen towns out of the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali, and Manasseh in Bashan.
###### v63
To the Merarites according to their families were allotted twelve towns out of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun.
###### v64
So the people of Israel gave the Levites the towns with their pasture lands.
###### v65
They also gave them by lot out of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin these towns that are mentioned by name.
###### v66
And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had towns of their territory out of the tribe of Ephraim.
###### v67
They were given the cities of refuge: Shechem with its pasture lands in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer with its pasture lands,
###### v68
Jokmeam with its pasture lands, Beth-horon with its pasture lands,
###### v69
Aijalon with its pasture lands, Gath-rimmon with its pasture lands;
###### v70
and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner with its pasture lands, and Bileam with its pasture lands, for the rest of the families of the Kohathites.
###### v71
To the Gershomites: out of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan with its pasture lands and Ashtaroth with its pasture lands;
###### v72
and out of the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its pasture lands, Daberath with its pasture lands,
###### v73
Ramoth with its pasture lands, and Anem with its pasture lands;
###### v74
out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands,
###### v75
Hukok with its pasture lands, and Rehob with its pasture lands;
###### v76
and out of the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasture lands, Hammon with its pasture lands, and Kiriathaim with its pasture lands.
###### v77
To the rest of the Merarites out of the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono with its pasture lands, Tabor with its pasture lands,
###### v78
and across the Jordan from Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the steppe with its pasture lands, Jahzah with its pasture lands,
###### v79
Kedemoth with its pasture lands, and Mephaath with its pasture lands;
###### v80
and out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasture lands, Mahanaim with its pasture lands,
###### v81
Heshbon with its pasture lands, and Jazer with its pasture lands.

***

[[1Ch-05|1 Chronicles - Chapter 5 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-07|1 Chronicles - Chapter 7 ]]
