# 1 Chronicles 8

[[1Ch-07|1 Chronicles - Chapter 7 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-09|1 Chronicles - Chapter 9 ]]
***

###### v1
Benjamin became the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,
###### v2
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
###### v3
And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud,
###### v4
Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
###### v5
Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.
###### v6
These are the sons of Ehud (they were heads of ancestral houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried into exile to Manahath):
###### v7
Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, that is, Heglam, who became the father of Uzza and Ahihud.
###### v8
And Shaharaim had sons in the country of Moab after he had sent away his wives Hushim and Baara.
###### v9
He had sons by his wife Hodesh: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
###### v10
Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of ancestral houses.
###### v11
He also had sons by Hushim: Abitub and Elpaal.
###### v12
The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod with its towns,
###### v13
and Beriah and Shema (they were heads of ancestral houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath);
###### v14
and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth.
###### v15
Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
###### v16
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beriah.
###### v17
Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,
###### v18
Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
###### v19
Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
###### v20
Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
###### v21
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
###### v22
Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
###### v23
Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
###### v24
Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
###### v25
Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
###### v26
Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,
###### v27
Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
###### v28
These were the heads of ancestral houses, according to their generations, chiefs. These lived in Jerusalem.
###### v29
Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah.
###### v30
His firstborn son: Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab,
###### v31
Gedor, Ahio, Zecher,
###### v32
and Mikloth, who became the father of Shimeah. Now these also lived opposite their kindred in Jerusalem, with their kindred.
###### v33
Ner became the father of Kish, Kish of Saul, Saul of Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal;
###### v34
and the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal became the father of Micah.
###### v35
The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.
###### v36
Ahaz became the father of Jehoaddah; and Jehoaddah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; Zimri became the father of Moza.
###### v37
Moza became the father of Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
###### v38
Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan; all these were the sons of Azel.
###### v39
The sons of his brother Eshek: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
###### v40
The sons of Ulam were mighty warriors, archers, having many children and grandchildren, one hundred fifty. All these were Benjaminites.

***

[[1Ch-07|1 Chronicles - Chapter 7 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-09|1 Chronicles - Chapter 9 ]]
