# 1 Chronicles 25

[[1Ch-24|1 Chronicles - Chapter 24 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-26|1 Chronicles - Chapter 26 ]]
***

###### v1
David and the officers of the army also set apart for the service the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with lyres, harps, and cymbals. The list of those who did the work and of their duties was:
###### v2
Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asarelah, sons of Asaph, under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king.
###### v3
Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the LORD.
###### v4
Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
###### v5
All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him; for God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
###### v6
They were all under the direction of their father for the music in the house of the LORD with cymbals, harps, and lyres for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the order of the king.
###### v7
They and their kindred, who were trained in singing to the LORD, all of whom were skillful, numbered two hundred eighty-eight.
###### v8
And they cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and pupil alike.
###### v9
The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, to him and his brothers and his sons, twelve;
###### v10
the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v11
the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v12
the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v13
the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v14
the seventh to Jesarelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v15
the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v16
the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v17
the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v18
the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v19
the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v20
to the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v21
to the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v22
to the fifteenth, to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v23
to the sixteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v24
to the seventeenth, to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v25
to the eighteenth, to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v26
to the nineteenth, to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v27
to the twentieth, to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v28
to the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v29
to the twenty-second, to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v30
to the twenty-third, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
###### v31
to the twenty-fourth, to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.

***

[[1Ch-24|1 Chronicles - Chapter 24 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-26|1 Chronicles - Chapter 26 ]]
