# 1 Chronicles 14

[[1Ch-13|1 Chronicles - Chapter 13 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-15|1 Chronicles - Chapter 15 ]]
***

###### v1
King Hiram of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar logs, and masons and carpenters to build a house for him.
###### v2
David then perceived that the LORD had established him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom was highly exalted for the sake of his people Israel.
###### v3
David took more wives in Jerusalem, and David became the father of more sons and daughters.
###### v4
These are the names of the children whom he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, and Nathan; Solomon,
###### v5
Ibhar, Elishua, and Elpelet;
###### v6
Nogah, Nepheg, and Japhia;
###### v7
Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet.
###### v8
When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up in search of David; and David heard of it and went out against them.
###### v9
Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim.
###### v10
David inquired of God, "Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you give them into my hand?" The LORD said to him, "Go up, and I will give them into your hand."
###### v11
So he went up to Baal-perazim, and David defeated them there. David said, "God has burst out against my enemies by my hand, like a bursting flood." Therefore that place is called Baal-perazim.
###### v12
They abandoned their gods there, and at David's command they were burned.
###### v13
Once again the Philistines made a raid in the valley.
###### v14
When David again inquired of God, God said to him, "You shall not go up after them; go around and come on them opposite the balsam trees.
###### v15
When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then go out to battle; for God has gone out before you to strike down the army of the Philistines."
###### v16
David did as God had commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon to Gezer.
###### v17
The fame of David went out into all lands, and the LORD brought the fear of him on all nations.

***

[[1Ch-13|1 Chronicles - Chapter 13 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-15|1 Chronicles - Chapter 15 ]]
