# 1 Chronicles 18

[[1Ch-17|1 Chronicles - Chapter 17 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-19|1 Chronicles - Chapter 19 ]]
***

###### v1
Some time afterward, David attacked the Philistines and subdued them; he took Gath and its villages from the Philistines.
###### v2
He defeated Moab, and the Moabites became subject to David and brought tribute.
###### v3
David also struck down King Hadadezer of Zobah, toward Hamath, as he went to set up a monument at the river Euphrates.
###### v4
David took from him one thousand chariots, seven thousand cavalry, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left one hundred of them.
###### v5
When the Arameans of Damascus came to help King Hadadezer of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand Arameans.
###### v6
Then David put garrisons in Aram of Damascus; and the Arameans became subject to David, and brought tribute. The LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
###### v7
David took the gold shields that were carried by the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
###### v8
From Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a vast quantity of bronze; with it Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the vessels of bronze.
###### v9
When King Tou of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of King Hadadezer of Zobah,
###### v10
he sent his son Hadoram to King David, to greet him and to congratulate him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him. Now Hadadezer had often been at war with Tou. He sent all sorts of articles of gold, of silver, and of bronze;
###### v11
these also King David dedicated to the LORD, together with the silver and gold that he had carried off from all the nations, from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalek.
###### v12
Abishai son of Zeruiah killed eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
###### v13
He put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became subject to David. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
###### v14
So David reigned over all Israel; and he administered justice and equity to all his people.
###### v15
Joab son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder;
###### v16
Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech son of Abiathar were priests; Shavsha was secretary;
###### v17
Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were the chief officials in the service of the king.

***

[[1Ch-17|1 Chronicles - Chapter 17 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-19|1 Chronicles - Chapter 19 ]]
