# 1 Chronicles 4

[[1Ch-03|1 Chronicles - Chapter 3 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-05|1 Chronicles - Chapter 5 ]]
***

###### v1
The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal.
###### v2
Reaiah son of Shobal became the father of Jahath, and Jahath became the father of Ahumai and Lahad. These were the families of the Zorathites.
###### v3
These were the sons of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi,
###### v4
and Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem.
###### v5
Ashhur father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah;
###### v6
Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
###### v7
The sons of Helah: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.
###### v8
Koz became the father of Anub, Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel son of Harum.
###### v9
Jabez was honored more than his brothers; and his mother named him Jabez, saying, "Because I bore him in pain."
###### v10
Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, "Oh that you would bless me and enlarge my border, and that your hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from hurt and harm!" And God granted what he asked.
###### v11
Chelub the brother of Shuhah became the father of Mehir, who was the father of Eshton.
###### v12
Eshton became the father of Beth-rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah.
###### v13
The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah; and the sons of Othniel: Hathath and Meonothai.
###### v14
Meonothai became the father of Ophrah; and Seraiah became the father of Joab father of Ge-harashim, so-called because they were artisans.
###### v15
The sons of Caleb son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam; and the son of Elah: Kenaz.
###### v16
The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.
###### v17
The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. These are the sons of Bithiah, daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married; and she conceived and bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah father of Eshtemoa.
###### v18
And his Judean wife bore Jered father of Gedor, Heber father of Soco, and Jekuthiel father of Zanoah.
###### v19
The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite.
###### v20
The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-zoheth.
###### v21
The sons of Shelah son of Judah: Er father of Lecah, Laadah father of Mareshah, and the families of the guild of linen workers at Beth-ashbea;
###### v22
and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who married into Moab but returned to Lehem (now the records are ancient).
###### v23
These were the potters and inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah; they lived there with the king in his service.
###### v24
The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
###### v25
Shallum was his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
###### v26
The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
###### v27
Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brothers did not have many children, nor did all their family multiply like the Judeans.
###### v28
They lived in Beer-sheba, Moladah, Hazar-shual,
###### v29
Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad,
###### v30
Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag,
###### v31
Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susim, Beth-biri, and Shaaraim. These were their towns until David became king.
###### v32
And their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five towns,
###### v33
along with all their villages that were around these towns as far as Baal. These were their settlements. And they kept a genealogical record.
###### v34
Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah son of Amaziah,
###### v35
Joel, Jehu son of Joshibiah son of Seraiah son of Asiel,
###### v36
Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah,
###### v37
Ziza son of Shiphi son of Allon son of Jedaiah son of Shimri son of Shemaiah--
###### v38
these mentioned by name were leaders in their families, and their clans increased greatly.
###### v39
They journeyed to the entrance of Gedor, to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks,
###### v40
where they found rich, good pasture, and the land was very broad, quiet, and peaceful; for the former inhabitants there belonged to Ham.
###### v41
These, registered by name, came in the days of King Hezekiah of Judah, and attacked their tents and the Meunim who were found there, and exterminated them to this day, and settled in their place, because there was pasture there for their flocks.
###### v42
And some of them, five hundred men of the Simeonites, went to Mount Seir, having as their leaders Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, sons of Ishi;
###### v43
they destroyed the remnant of the Amalekites that had escaped, and they have lived there to this day.

***

[[1Ch-03|1 Chronicles - Chapter 3 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-05|1 Chronicles - Chapter 5 ]]
