# 1 Chronicles 3

[[1Ch-02|1 Chronicles - Chapter 2 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-04|1 Chronicles - Chapter 4 ]]
***

###### v1
These are the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelite; the second Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelite;
###### v2
the third Absalom, son of Maacah, daughter of King Talmai of Geshur; the fourth Adonijah, son of Haggith;
###### v3
the fifth Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth Ithream, by his wife Eglah;
###### v4
six were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. And he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
###### v5
These were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four by Bath-shua, daughter of Ammiel;
###### v6
then Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet,
###### v7
Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
###### v8
Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
###### v9
All these were David's sons, besides the sons of the concubines; and Tamar was their sister.
###### v10
The descendants of Solomon: Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
###### v11
Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
###### v12
Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
###### v13
Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
###### v14
Amon his son, Josiah his son.
###### v15
The sons of Josiah: Johanan the firstborn, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
###### v16
The descendants of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son;
###### v17
and the sons of Jeconiah, the captive: Shealtiel his son,
###### v18
Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah;
###### v19
The sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei; and the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister;
###### v20
and Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five.
###### v21
The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, his son Rephaiah, his son Arnan, his son Obadiah, his son Shecaniah.
###### v22
The son of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
###### v23
The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three.
###### v24
The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani, seven.

***

[[1Ch-02|1 Chronicles - Chapter 2 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-04|1 Chronicles - Chapter 4 ]]
