# 1 Chronicles 2

[[1Ch-01|1 Chronicles - Chapter 1 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-03|1 Chronicles - Chapter 3 ]]
***

###### v1
These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,
###### v2
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
###### v3
The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah; these three the Canaanite woman Bath-shua bore to him. Now Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD, and he put him to death.
###### v4
His daughter-in-law Tamar also bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
###### v5
The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
###### v6
The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, five in all.
###### v7
The sons of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the matter of the devoted thing;
###### v8
and Ethan's son was Azariah.
###### v9
The sons of Hezron, who were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai.
###### v10
Ram became the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah.
###### v11
Nahshon became the father of Salma, Salma of Boaz,
###### v12
Boaz of Obed, Obed of Jesse.
###### v13
Jesse became the father of Eliab his firstborn, Abinadab the second, Shimea the third,
###### v14
Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
###### v15
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh;
###### v16
and their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three.
###### v17
Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
###### v18
Caleb son of Hezron had children by his wife Azubah, and by Jerioth; these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
###### v19
When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
###### v20
Hur became the father of Uri, and Uri became the father of Bezalel.
###### v21
Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old; and she bore him Segub;
###### v22
and Segub became the father of Jair, who had twenty-three towns in the land of Gilead.
###### v23
But Geshur and Aram took from them Havvoth-jair, Kenath and its villages, sixty towns. All these were descendants of Machir, father of Gilead.
###### v24
After the death of Hezron, in Caleb-ephrathah, Abijah wife of Hezron bore him Ashhur, father of Tekoa.
###### v25
The sons of Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron: Ram his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.
###### v26
Jerahmeel also had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
###### v27
The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.
###### v28
The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
###### v29
The name of Abishur's wife was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid.
###### v30
The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim; and Seled died childless.
###### v31
The son of Appaim: Ishi. The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
###### v32
The sons of Jada, Shammai's brother: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether died childless.
###### v33
The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
###### v34
Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters; but Sheshan had an Egyptian slave, whose name was Jarha.
###### v35
So Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to his slave Jarha; and she bore him Attai.
###### v36
Attai became the father of Nathan, and Nathan of Zabad.
###### v37
Zabad became the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal of Obed.
###### v38
Obed became the father of Jehu, and Jehu of Azariah.
###### v39
Azariah became the father of Helez, and Helez of Eleasah.
###### v40
Eleasah became the father of Sismai, and Sismai of Shallum.
###### v41
Shallum became the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah of Elishama.
###### v42
The sons of Caleb brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn, who was father of Ziph. The sons of Mareshah father of Hebron.
###### v43
The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema.
###### v44
Shema became father of Raham, father of Jorkeam; and Rekem became the father of Shammai.
###### v45
The son of Shammai: Maon; and Maon was the father of Beth-zur.
###### v46
Ephah also, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; and Haran became the father of Gazez.
###### v47
The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.
###### v48
Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
###### v49
She also bore Shaaph father of Madmannah, Sheva father of Machbenah and father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
###### v50
These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal father of Kiriath-jearim,
###### v51
Salma father of Bethlehem, and Hareph father of Beth-gader.
###### v52
Shobal father of Kiriath-jearim had other sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.
###### v53
And the families of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; from these came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.
###### v54
The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.
###### v55
The families also of the scribes that lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and the Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, father of the house of Rechab.

***

[[1Ch-01|1 Chronicles - Chapter 1 ]] | [[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-03|1 Chronicles - Chapter 3 ]]
