# 1 Chronicles 1

[[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-02|1 Chronicles - Chapter 2 ]]
***

###### v1
Adam, Seth, Enosh;
###### v2
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared;
###### v3
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech;
###### v4
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
###### v5
The descendants of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
###### v6
The descendants of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Diphath, and Togarmah.
###### v7
The descendants of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.
###### v8
The descendants of Ham: Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan.
###### v9
The descendants of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raama, and Sabteca. The descendants of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
###### v10
Cush became the father of Nimrod; he was the first to be a mighty one on the earth.
###### v11
Egypt became the father of Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim,
###### v12
Pathrusim, Casluhim, and Caphtorim, from whom the Philistines come.
###### v13
Canaan became the father of Sidon his firstborn, and Heth,
###### v14
and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,
###### v15
the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
###### v16
the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.
###### v17
The descendants of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech.
###### v18
Arpachshad became the father of Shelah; and Shelah became the father of Eber.
###### v19
To Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg (for in his days the earth was divided), and the name of his brother Joktan.
###### v20
Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
###### v21
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
###### v22
Ebal, Abimael, Sheba,
###### v23
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the descendants of Joktan.
###### v24
Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah;
###### v25
Eber, Peleg, Reu;
###### v26
Serug, Nahor, Terah;
###### v27
Abram, that is, Abraham.
###### v28
The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
###### v29
These are their genealogies: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
###### v30
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
###### v31
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
###### v32
The sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.
###### v33
The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the descendants of Keturah.
###### v34
Abraham became the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.
###### v35
The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
###### v36
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek.
###### v37
The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
###### v38
The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.
###### v39
The sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
###### v40
The sons of Shobal: Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
###### v41
The sons of Anah: Dishon. The sons of Dishon: Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.
###### v42
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
###### v43
These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites: Bela son of Beor, whose city was called Dinhabah.
###### v44
When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah of Bozrah succeeded him.
###### v45
When Jobab died, Husham of the land of the Temanites succeeded him.
###### v46
When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, succeeded him; and the name of his city was Avith.
###### v47
When Hadad died, Samlah of Masrekah succeeded him.
###### v48
When Samlah died, Shaul of Rehoboth on the Euphrates succeeded him.
###### v49
When Shaul died, Baal-hanan son of Achbor succeeded him.
###### v50
When Baal-hanan died, Hadad succeeded him; the name of his city was Pai, and his wife's name Mehetabel daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-zahab.
###### v51
And Hadad died. The clans of Edom were: clans Timna, Aliah, Jetheth,
###### v52
Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
###### v53
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
###### v54
Magdiel, and Iram; these are the clans of Edom.

***

[[1 Chronicles]] | [[1Ch-02|1 Chronicles - Chapter 2 ]]
