# 2 Timothy 1

[[2 Timothy]] | [[2Ti-02|2 Timothy - Chapter 2 ]]
***

###### v1
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, for the sake of the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus,
###### v2
To Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
###### v3
I am grateful to God-- whom I worship with a clear conscience, as my ancestors did-- when I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day.
###### v4
Recalling your tears, I long to see you so that I may be filled with joy.
###### v5
I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that lived first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and now, I am sure, lives in you.
###### v6
For this reason I remind you to rekindle the gift of God that is within you through the laying on of my hands;
###### v7
for God did not give us a spirit of cowardice, but rather a spirit of power and of love and of self-discipline.
###### v8
Do not be ashamed, then, of the testimony about our Lord or of me his prisoner, but join with me in suffering for the gospel, relying on the power of God,
###### v9
who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to his own purpose and grace. This grace was given to us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,
###### v10
but it has now been revealed through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.
###### v11
For this gospel I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher,
###### v12
and for this reason I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know the one in whom I have put my trust, and I am sure that he is able to guard until that day what I have entrusted to him.
###### v13
Hold to the standard of sound teaching that you have heard from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
###### v14
Guard the good treasure entrusted to you, with the help of the Holy Spirit living in us.
###### v15
You are aware that all who are in Asia have turned away from me, including Phygelus and Hermogenes.
###### v16
May the Lord grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain;
###### v17
when he arrived in Rome, he eagerly searched for me and found me
###### v18
-- may the Lord grant that he will find mercy from the Lord on that day! And you know very well how much service he rendered in Ephesus.

***

[[2 Timothy]] | [[2Ti-02|2 Timothy - Chapter 2 ]]
