# 2 Timothy 2

[[2Ti-01|2 Timothy - Chapter 1 ]] | [[2 Timothy]] | [[2Ti-03|2 Timothy - Chapter 3 ]]
***

###### v1
You then, my child, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus;
###### v2
and what you have heard from me through many witnesses entrust to faithful people who will be able to teach others as well.
###### v3
Share in suffering like a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
###### v4
No one serving in the army gets entangled in everyday affairs; the soldier's aim is to please the enlisting officer.
###### v5
And in the case of an athlete, no one is crowned without competing according to the rules.
###### v6
It is the farmer who does the work who ought to have the first share of the crops.
###### v7
Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
###### v8
Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, a descendant of David-- that is my gospel,
###### v9
for which I suffer hardship, even to the point of being chained like a criminal. But the word of God is not chained.
###### v10
Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, so that they may also obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory.
###### v11
The saying is sure: If we have died with him, we will also live with him;
###### v12
if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he will also deny us;
###### v13
if we are faithless, he remains faithful-- for he cannot deny himself.
###### v14
Remind them of this, and warn them before God that they are to avoid wrangling over words, which does no good but only ruins those who are listening.
###### v15
Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved by him, a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly explaining the word of truth.
###### v16
Avoid profane chatter, for it will lead people into more and more impiety,
###### v17
and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
###### v18
who have swerved from the truth by claiming that the resurrection has already taken place. They are upsetting the faith of some.
###### v19
But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this inscription: "The Lord knows those who are his," and, "Let everyone who calls on the name of the Lord turn away from wickedness."
###### v20
In a large house there are utensils not only of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for special use, some for ordinary.
###### v21
All who cleanse themselves of the things I have mentioned will become special utensils, dedicated and useful to the owner of the house, ready for every good work.
###### v22
Shun youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.
###### v23
Have nothing to do with stupid and senseless controversies; you know that they breed quarrels.
###### v24
And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kindly to everyone, an apt teacher, patient,
###### v25
correcting opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant that they will repent and come to know the truth,
###### v26
and that they may escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will.

***

[[2Ti-01|2 Timothy - Chapter 1 ]] | [[2 Timothy]] | [[2Ti-03|2 Timothy - Chapter 3 ]]
