# 1 Thessalonians 5

[[1Th-04|1 Thessalonians - Chapter 4]] | [[1 Thessalonians]]
***

###### v1
Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers and sisters, you do not need to have anything written to you.
###### v2
For you yourselves know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.
###### v3
When they say, "There is peace and security," then sudden destruction will come upon them, as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and there will be no escape!
###### v4
But you, beloved, are not in darkness, for that day to surprise you like a thief;
###### v5
for you are all children of light and children of the day; we are not of the night or of darkness.
###### v6
So then let us not fall asleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober;
###### v7
for those who sleep sleep at night, and those who are drunk get drunk at night.
###### v8
But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, and put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation.
###### v9
For God has destined us not for wrath but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
###### v10
who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep we may live with him.
###### v11
Therefore encourage one another and build up each other, as indeed you are doing.
###### v12
But we appeal to you, brothers and sisters, to respect those who labor among you, and have charge of you in the Lord and admonish you;
###### v13
esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
###### v14
And we urge you, beloved, to admonish the idlers, encourage the faint hearted, help the weak, be patient with all of them.
###### v15
See that none of you repays evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to all.
###### v16
Rejoice always,
###### v17
pray without ceasing,
###### v18
give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
###### v19
Do not quench the Spirit.
###### v20
Do not despise the words of prophets,
###### v21
but test everything; hold fast to what is good;
###### v22
abstain from every form of evil.
###### v23
May the God of peace himself sanctify you entirely; and may your spirit and soul and body be kept sound and blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
###### v24
The one who calls you is faithful, and he will do this.
###### v25
Beloved, pray for us.
###### v26
Greet all the brothers and sisters with a holy kiss.
###### v27
I solemnly command you by the Lord that this letter be read to all of them.
###### v28
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

***

[[1Th-04|1 Thessalonians - Chapter 4]] | [[1 Thessalonians]]
