# 1 Thessalonians 3

[[1Th-02|1 Thessalonians - Chapter 2 ]] | [[1 Thessalonians]] | [[1Th-04|1 Thessalonians - Chapter 4 ]]
***

###### v1
Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we decided to be left alone in Athens;
###### v2
and we sent Timothy, our brother and co-worker for God in proclaiming the gospel of Christ, to strengthen and encourage you for the sake of your faith,
###### v3
so that no one would be shaken by these persecutions. Indeed, you yourselves know that this is what we are destined for.
###### v4
In fact, when we were with you, we told you beforehand that we were to suffer persecution; so it turned out, as you know.
###### v5
For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to find out about your faith; I was afraid that somehow the tempter had tempted you and that our labor had been in vain.
###### v6
But Timothy has just now come to us from you, and has brought us the good news of your faith and love. He has told us also that you always remember us kindly and long to see us-- just as we long to see you.
###### v7
For this reason, brothers and sisters, during all our distress and persecution we have been encouraged about you through your faith.
###### v8
For we now live, if you continue to stand firm in the Lord.
###### v9
How can we thank God enough for you in return for all the joy that we feel before our God because of you?
###### v10
Night and day we pray most earnestly that we may see you face to face and restore whatever is lacking in your faith.
###### v11
Now may our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus direct our way to you.
###### v12
And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, just as we abound in love for you.
###### v13
And may he so strengthen your hearts in holiness that you may be blameless before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.

***

[[1Th-02|1 Thessalonians - Chapter 2 ]] | [[1 Thessalonians]] | [[1Th-04|1 Thessalonians - Chapter 4 ]]
