# 1 Timothy 2

[[1Ti-01|1 Timothy - Chapter 1 ]] | [[1 Timothy]] | [[1Ti-03|1 Timothy - Chapter 3 ]]
***

###### v1
First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for everyone,
###### v2
for kings and all who are in high positions, so that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and dignity.
###### v3
This is right and is acceptable in the sight of God our Savior,
###### v4
who desires everyone to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
###### v5
For there is one God; there is also one mediator between God and humankind, Christ Jesus, himself human,
###### v6
who gave himself a ransom for all-- this was attested at the right time.
###### v7
For this I was appointed a herald and an apostle (I am telling the truth, I am not lying), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
###### v8
I desire, then, that in every place the men should pray, lifting up holy hands without anger or argument;
###### v9
also that the women should dress themselves modestly and decently in suitable clothing, not with their hair braided, or with gold, pearls, or expensive clothes,
###### v10
but with good works, as is proper for women who profess reverence for God.
###### v11
Let a woman learn in silence with full submission.
###### v12
I permit no woman to teach or to have authority over a man; she is to keep silent.
###### v13
For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
###### v14
and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
###### v15
Yet she will be saved through childbearing, provided they continue in faith and love and holiness, with modesty.

***

[[1Ti-01|1 Timothy - Chapter 1 ]] | [[1 Timothy]] | [[1Ti-03|1 Timothy - Chapter 3 ]]
