# 2 John 1

[[2 John]]
***

###### v1
The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth, and not only I but also all who know the truth,
###### v2
because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:
###### v3
Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, in truth and love.
###### v4
I was overjoyed to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we have been commanded by the Father.
###### v5
But now, dear lady, I ask you, not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but one we have had from the beginning, let us love one another.
###### v6
And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this is the commandment just as you have heard it from the beginning-- you must walk in it.
###### v7
Many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh; any such person is the deceiver and the antichrist!
###### v8
Be on your guard, so that you do not lose what we have worked for, but may receive a full reward.
###### v9
Everyone who does not abide in the teaching of Christ, but goes beyond it, does not have God; whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.
###### v10
Do not receive into the house or welcome anyone who comes to you and does not bring this teaching;
###### v11
for to welcome is to participate in the evil deeds of such a person.
###### v12
Although I have much to write to you, I would rather not use paper and ink; instead I hope to come to you and talk with you face to face, so that our joy may be complete.
###### v13
The children of your elect sister send you their greetings.

***

[[2 John]]
