# 2 Peter 1

[[2 Peter]] | [[2Pe-02|2 Peter - Chapter 2 ]]
***

###### v1
Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have received a faith as precious as ours through the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:
###### v2
May grace and peace be yours in abundance in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
###### v3
His divine power has given us everything needed for life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and goodness.
###### v4
Thus he has given us, through these things, his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may escape from the corruption that is in the world because of lust, and may become participants of the divine nature.
###### v5
For this very reason, you must make every effort to support your faith with goodness, and goodness with knowledge,
###### v6
and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with endurance, and endurance with godliness,
###### v7
and godliness with mutual affection, and mutual affection with love.
###### v8
For if these things are yours and are increasing among you, they keep you from being ineffective and unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
###### v9
For anyone who lacks these things is nearsighted and blind, and is forgetful of the cleansing of past sins.
###### v10
Therefore, brothers and sisters, be all the more eager to confirm your call and election, for if you do this, you will never stumble.
###### v11
For in this way, entry into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly provided for you.
###### v12
Therefore I intend to keep on reminding you of these things, though you know them already and are established in the truth that has come to you.
###### v13
I think it right, as long as I am in this body, to refresh your memory,
###### v14
since I know that my death will come soon, as indeed our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me.
###### v15
And I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to recall these things.
###### v16
For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we had been eyewitnesses of his majesty.
###### v17
For he received honor and glory from God the Father when that voice was conveyed to him by the Majestic Glory, saying, "This is my Son, my Beloved, with whom I am well pleased."
###### v18
We ourselves heard this voice come from heaven, while we were with him on the holy mountain.
###### v19
So we have the prophetic message more fully confirmed. You will do well to be attentive to this as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts.
###### v20
First of all you must understand this, that no prophecy of scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation,
###### v21
because no prophecy ever came by human will, but men and women moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God.

***

[[2 Peter]] | [[2Pe-02|2 Peter - Chapter 2 ]]
