# 2 Samuel 22

[[2Sa-21|2 Samuel - Chapter 21 ]] | [[2 Samuel]] | [[2Sa-23|2 Samuel - Chapter 23 ]]
***

###### v1
David spoke to the LORD the words of this song on the day when the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul.
###### v2
He said: The LORD is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer,
###### v3
my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and my refuge, my savior; you save me from violence.
###### v4
I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.
###### v5
For the waves of death encompassed me, the torrents of perdition assailed me;
###### v6
the cords of Sheol entangled me, the snares of death confronted me.
###### v7
In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I called. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry came to his ears.
###### v8
Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations of the heavens trembled and quaked, because he was angry.
###### v9
Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from him.
###### v10
He bowed the heavens, and came down; thick darkness was under his feet.
###### v11
He rode on a cherub, and flew; he was seen upon the wings of the wind.
###### v12
He made darkness around him a canopy, thick clouds, a gathering of water.
###### v13
Out of the brightness before him coals of fire flamed forth.
###### v14
The LORD thundered from heaven; the Most High uttered his voice.
###### v15
He sent out arrows, and scattered them-- lightning, and routed them.
###### v16
Then the channels of the sea were seen, the foundations of the world were laid bare at the rebuke of the LORD, at the blast of the breath of his nostrils.
###### v17
He reached from on high, he took me, he drew me out of mighty waters.
###### v18
He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.
###### v19
They came upon me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my stay.
###### v20
He brought me out into a broad place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me.
###### v21
The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he recompensed me.
###### v22
For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
###### v23
For all his ordinances were before me, and from his statutes I did not turn aside.
###### v24
I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from guilt.
###### v25
Therefore the LORD has recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness in his sight.
###### v26
With the loyal you show yourself loyal; with the blameless you show yourself blameless;
###### v27
with the pure you show yourself pure, and with the crooked you show yourself perverse.
###### v28
You deliver a humble people, but your eyes are upon the haughty to bring them down.
###### v29
Indeed, you are my lamp, O LORD, the LORD lightens my darkness.
###### v30
By you I can crush a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall.
###### v31
This God-- his way is perfect; the promise of the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all who take refuge in him.
###### v32
For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?
###### v33
The God who has girded me with strength has opened wide my path.
###### v34
He made my feet like the feet of deer, and set me secure on the heights.
###### v35
He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
###### v36
You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your help has made me great.
###### v37
You have made me stride freely, and my feet do not slip;
###### v38
I pursued my enemies and destroyed them, and did not turn back until they were consumed.
###### v39
I consumed them; I struck them down, so that they did not rise; they fell under my feet.
###### v40
For you girded me with strength for the battle; you made my assailants sink under me.
###### v41
You made my enemies turn their backs to me, those who hated me, and I destroyed them.
###### v42
They looked, but there was no one to save them; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them.
###### v43
I beat them fine like the dust of the earth, I crushed them and stamped them down like the mire of the streets.
###### v44
You delivered me from strife with the peoples; you kept me as the head of the nations; people whom I had not known served me.
###### v45
Foreigners came cringing to me; as soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me.
###### v46
Foreigners lost heart, and came trembling out of their strongholds.
###### v47
The LORD lives! Blessed be my rock, and exalted be my God, the rock of my salvation,
###### v48
the God who gave me vengeance and brought down peoples under me,
###### v49
who brought me out from my enemies; you exalted me above my adversaries, you delivered me from the violent.
###### v50
For this I will extol you, O LORD, among the nations, and sing praises to your name.
###### v51
He is a tower of salvation for his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his descendants forever.

***

[[2Sa-21|2 Samuel - Chapter 21 ]] | [[2 Samuel]] | [[2Sa-23|2 Samuel - Chapter 23 ]]
