# 2 Samuel 7

[[2Sa-06|2 Samuel - Chapter 6 ]] | [[2 Samuel]] | [[2Sa-08|2 Samuel - Chapter 8 ]]
***

###### v1
Now when the king was settled in his house, and the LORD had given him rest from all his enemies around him,
###### v2
the king said to the prophet Nathan, "See now, I am living in a house of cedar, but the ark of God stays in a tent."
###### v3
Nathan said to the king, "Go, do all that you have in mind; for the LORD is with you."
###### v4
But that same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan:
###### v5
Go and tell my servant David: Thus says the LORD: Are you the one to build me a house to live in?
###### v6
I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up the people of Israel from Egypt to this day, but I have been moving about in a tent and a tabernacle.
###### v7
Wherever I have moved about among all the people of Israel, did I ever speak a word with any of the tribal leaders of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, "Why have you not built me a house of cedar?"
###### v8
Now therefore thus you shall say to my servant David: Thus says the LORD of hosts: I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep to be prince over my people Israel;
###### v9
and I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth.
###### v10
And I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them, so that they may live in their own place, and be disturbed no more; and evildoers shall afflict them no more, as formerly,
###### v11
from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel; and I will give you rest from all your enemies. Moreover the LORD declares to you that the LORD will make you a house.
###### v12
When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come forth from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.
###### v13
He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
###### v14
I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. When he commits iniquity, I will punish him with a rod such as mortals use, with blows inflicted by human beings.
###### v15
But I will not take my steadfast love from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you.
###### v16
Your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me; your throne shall be established forever.
###### v17
In accordance with all these words and with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David.
###### v18
Then King David went in and sat before the LORD, and said, "Who am I, O Lord GOD, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far?
###### v19
And yet this was a small thing in your eyes, O Lord GOD; you have spoken also of your servant's house for a great while to come. May this be instruction for the people, O Lord GOD!
###### v20
And what more can David say to you? For you know your servant, O Lord GOD!
###### v21
Because of your promise, and according to your own heart, you have wrought all this greatness, so that your servant may know it.
###### v22
Therefore you are great, O LORD God; for there is no one like you, and there is no God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
###### v23
Who is like your people, like Israel? Is there another nation on earth whose God went to redeem it as a people, and to make a name for himself, doing great and awesome things for them, by driving out before his people nations and their gods?
###### v24
And you established your people Israel for yourself to be your people forever; and you, O LORD, became their God.
###### v25
And now, O LORD God, as for the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house, confirm it forever; do as you have promised.
###### v26
Thus your name will be magnified forever in the saying, 'The LORD of hosts is God over Israel'; and the house of your servant David will be established before you.
###### v27
For you, O LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have made this revelation to your servant, saying, 'I will build you a house'; therefore your servant has found courage to pray this prayer to you.
###### v28
And now, O Lord GOD, you are God, and your words are true, and you have promised this good thing to your servant;
###### v29
now therefore may it please you to bless the house of your servant, so that it may continue forever before you; for you, O Lord GOD, have spoken, and with your blessing shall the house of your servant be blessed forever."

***

[[2Sa-06|2 Samuel - Chapter 6 ]] | [[2 Samuel]] | [[2Sa-08|2 Samuel - Chapter 8 ]]
