# 1 Corinthians 2

[[1Co-01|1 Corinthians - Chapter 1 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-03|1 Corinthians - Chapter 3 ]]
***

###### v1
When I came to you, brothers and sisters, I did not come proclaiming the mystery of God to you in lofty words or wisdom.
###### v2
For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ, and him crucified.
###### v3
And I came to you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling.
###### v4
My speech and my proclamation were not with plausible words of wisdom, but with a demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
###### v5
so that your faith might rest not on human wisdom but on the power of God.
###### v6
Yet among the mature we do speak wisdom, though it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are doomed to perish.
###### v7
But we speak God's wisdom, secret and hidden, which God decreed before the ages for our glory.
###### v8
None of the rulers of this age understood this; for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
###### v9
But, as it is written, "What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the human heart conceived, what God has prepared for those who love him"--
###### v10
these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit; for the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.
###### v11
For what human being knows what is truly human except the human spirit that is within? So also no one comprehends what is truly God's except the Spirit of God.
###### v12
Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit that is from God, so that we may understand the gifts bestowed on us by God.
###### v13
And we speak of these things in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual things to those who are spiritual.
###### v14
Those who are unspiritual do not receive the gifts of God's Spirit, for they are foolishness to them, and they are unable to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.
###### v15
Those who are spiritual discern all things, and they are themselves subject to no one else's scrutiny.
###### v16
"For who has known the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?" But we have the mind of Christ.

***

[[1Co-01|1 Corinthians - Chapter 1 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-03|1 Corinthians - Chapter 3 ]]
