# 1 Corinthians 16

[[1Co-15|1 Corinthians - Chapter 15]] | [[1 Corinthians]]
***

###### v1
Now concerning the collection for the saints: you should follow the directions I gave to the churches of Galatia.
###### v2
On the first day of every week, each of you is to put aside and save whatever extra you earn, so that collections need not be taken when I come.
###### v3
And when I arrive, I will send any whom you approve with letters to take your gift to Jerusalem.
###### v4
If it seems advisable that I should go also, they will accompany me.
###### v5
I will visit you after passing through Macedonia-- for I intend to pass through Macedonia--
###### v6
and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter, so that you may send me on my way, wherever I go.
###### v7
I do not want to see you now just in passing, for I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits.
###### v8
But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
###### v9
for a wide door for effective work has opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
###### v10
If Timothy comes, see that he has nothing to fear among you, for he is doing the work of the Lord just as I am;
###### v11
therefore let no one despise him. Send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me; for I am expecting him with the brothers.
###### v12
Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to visit you with the other brothers, but he was not at all willing to come now. He will come when he has the opportunity.
###### v13
Keep alert, stand firm in your faith, be courageous, be strong.
###### v14
Let all that you do be done in love.
###### v15
Now, brothers and sisters, you know that members of the household of Stephanas were the first converts in Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints;
###### v16
I urge you to put yourselves at the service of such people, and of everyone who works and toils with them.
###### v17
I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they have made up for your absence;
###### v18
for they refreshed my spirit as well as yours. So give recognition to such persons.
###### v19
The churches of Asia send greetings. Aquila and Prisca, together with the church in their house, greet you warmly in the Lord.
###### v20
All the brothers and sisters send greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
###### v21
I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand.
###### v22
Let anyone be accursed who has no love for the Lord. Our Lord, come!
###### v23
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
###### v24
My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus.

***

[[1Co-15|1 Corinthians - Chapter 15]] | [[1 Corinthians]]
