# 1 Corinthians 13

[[1Co-12|1 Corinthians - Chapter 12 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-14|1 Corinthians - Chapter 14 ]]
***

###### v1
If I speak in the tongues of mortals and of angels, but do not have love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.
###### v2
And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
###### v3
If I give away all my possessions, and if I hand over my body so that I may boast, but do not have love, I gain nothing.
###### v4
Love is patient; love is kind; love is not envious or boastful or arrogant
###### v5
or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful;
###### v6
it does not rejoice in wrongdoing, but rejoices in the truth.
###### v7
It bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
###### v8
Love never ends. But as for prophecies, they will come to an end; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will come to an end.
###### v9
For we know only in part, and we prophesy only in part;
###### v10
but when the complete comes, the partial will come to an end.
###### v11
When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child; when I became an adult, I put an end to childish ways.
###### v12
For now we see in a mirror, dimly, but then we will see face to face. Now I know only in part; then I will know fully, even as I have been fully known.
###### v13
And now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; and the greatest of these is love.

***

[[1Co-12|1 Corinthians - Chapter 12 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-14|1 Corinthians - Chapter 14 ]]
