# 1 Corinthians 14

[[1Co-13|1 Corinthians - Chapter 13 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-15|1 Corinthians - Chapter 15 ]]
***

###### v1
Pursue love and strive for the spiritual gifts, and especially that you may prophesy.
###### v2
For those who speak in a tongue do not speak to other people but to God; for nobody understands them, since they are speaking mysteries in the Spirit.
###### v3
On the other hand, those who prophesy speak to other people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation.
###### v4
Those who speak in a tongue build up themselves, but those who prophesy build up the church.
###### v5
Now I would like all of you to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. One who prophesies is greater than one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up.
###### v6
Now, brothers and sisters, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I speak to you in some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching?
###### v7
It is the same way with lifeless instruments that produce sound, such as the flute or the harp. If they do not give distinct notes, how will anyone know what is being played?
###### v8
And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle?
###### v9
So with yourselves; if in a tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know what is being said? For you will be speaking into the air.
###### v10
There are doubtless many different kinds of sounds in the world, and nothing is without sound.
###### v11
If then I do not know the meaning of a sound, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me.
###### v12
So with yourselves; since you are eager for spiritual gifts, strive to excel in them for building up the church.
###### v13
Therefore, one who speaks in a tongue should pray for the power to interpret.
###### v14
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unproductive.
###### v15
What should I do then? I will pray with the spirit, but I will pray with the mind also; I will sing praise with the spirit, but I will sing praise with the mind also.
###### v16
Otherwise, if you say a blessing with the spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say the "Amen" to your thanksgiving, since the outsider does not know what you are saying?
###### v17
For you may give thanks well enough, but the other person is not built up.
###### v18
I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you;
###### v19
nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind, in order to instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
###### v20
Brothers and sisters, do not be children in your thinking; rather, be infants in evil, but in thinking be adults.
###### v21
In the law it is written, "By people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners I will speak to this people; yet even then they will not listen to me," says the Lord.
###### v22
Tongues, then, are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is not for unbelievers but for believers.
###### v23
If, therefore, the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your mind?
###### v24
But if all prophesy, an unbeliever or outsider who enters is reproved by all and called to account by all.
###### v25
After the secrets of the unbeliever's heart are disclosed, that person will bow down before God and worship him, declaring, "God is really among you."
###### v26
What should be done then, my friends? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.
###### v27
If anyone speaks in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn; and let one interpret.
###### v28
But if there is no one to interpret, let them be silent in church and speak to themselves and to God.
###### v29
Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said.
###### v30
If a revelation is made to someone else sitting nearby, let the first person be silent.
###### v31
For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged.
###### v32
And the spirits of prophets are subject to the prophets,
###### v33
for God is a God not of disorder but of peace. (As in all the churches of the saints,
###### v34
women should be silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be subordinate, as the law also says.
###### v35
If there is anything they desire to know, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.
###### v36
Or did the word of God originate with you? Or are you the only ones it has reached?)
###### v37
Anyone who claims to be a prophet, or to have spiritual powers, must acknowledge that what I am writing to you is a command of the Lord.
###### v38
Anyone who does not recognize this is not to be recognized.
###### v39
So, my friends, be eager to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues;
###### v40
but all things should be done decently and in order.

***

[[1Co-13|1 Corinthians - Chapter 13 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-15|1 Corinthians - Chapter 15 ]]
