# 1 Corinthians 6

[[1Co-05|1 Corinthians - Chapter 5 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-07|1 Corinthians - Chapter 7 ]]
***

###### v1
When any of you has a grievance against another, do you dare to take it to court before the unrighteous, instead of taking it before the saints?
###### v2
Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases?
###### v3
Do you not know that we are to judge angels-- to say nothing of ordinary matters?
###### v4
If you have ordinary cases, then, do you appoint as judges those who have no standing in the church?
###### v5
I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to decide between one believer and another,
###### v6
but a believer goes to court against a believer-- and before unbelievers at that?
###### v7
In fact, to have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?
###### v8
But you yourselves wrong and defraud-- and believers at that.
###### v9
Do you not know that wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived! Fornicators, idolaters, adulterers, male prostitutes, sodomites,
###### v10
thieves, the greedy, drunkards, revilers, robbers-- none of these will inherit the kingdom of God.
###### v11
And this is what some of you used to be. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God.
###### v12
"All things are lawful for me," but not all things are beneficial. "All things are lawful for me," but I will not be dominated by anything.
###### v13
"Food is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food," and God will destroy both one and the other. The body is meant not for fornication but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
###### v14
And God raised the Lord and will also raise us by his power.
###### v15
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Should I therefore take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Never!
###### v16
Do you not know that whoever is united to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For it is said, "The two shall be one flesh."
###### v17
But anyone united to the Lord becomes one spirit with him.
###### v18
Shun fornication! Every sin that a person commits is outside the body; but the fornicator sins against the body itself.
###### v19
Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, which you have from God, and that you are not your own?
###### v20
For you were bought with a price; therefore glorify God in your body.

***

[[1Co-05|1 Corinthians - Chapter 5 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-07|1 Corinthians - Chapter 7 ]]
