# 1 Corinthians 8

[[1Co-07|1 Corinthians - Chapter 7 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-09|1 Corinthians - Chapter 9 ]]
***

###### v1
Now concerning food sacrificed to idols: we know that "all of us possess knowledge." Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
###### v2
Anyone who claims to know something does not yet have the necessary knowledge;
###### v3
but anyone who loves God is known by him.
###### v4
Hence, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that "no idol in the world really exists," and that "there is no God but one."
###### v5
Indeed, even though there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth-- as in fact there are many gods and many lords--
###### v6
yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist.
###### v7
It is not everyone, however, who has this knowledge. Since some have become so accustomed to idols until now, they still think of the food they eat as food offered to an idol; and their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
###### v8
"Food will not bring us close to God." We are no worse off if we do not eat, and no better off if we do.
###### v9
But take care that this liberty of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak.
###### v10
For if others see you, who possess knowledge, eating in the temple of an idol, might they not, since their conscience is weak, be encouraged to the point of eating food sacrificed to idols?
###### v11
So by your knowledge those weak believers for whom Christ died are destroyed.
###### v12
But when you thus sin against members of your family, and wound their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ.
###### v13
Therefore, if food is a cause of their falling, I will never eat meat, so that I may not cause one of them to fall.

***

[[1Co-07|1 Corinthians - Chapter 7 ]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1Co-09|1 Corinthians - Chapter 9 ]]
