# 2 Corinthians 2

[[2Co-01|2 Corinthians - Chapter 1 ]] | [[2 Corinthians]] | [[2Co-03|2 Corinthians - Chapter 3 ]]
***

###### v1
So I made up my mind not to make you another painful visit.
###### v2
For if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained?
###### v3
And I wrote as I did, so that when I came, I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice; for I am confident about all of you, that my joy would be the joy of all of you.
###### v4
For I wrote you out of much distress and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you pain, but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.
###### v5
But if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but to some extent-- not to exaggerate it-- to all of you.
###### v6
This punishment by the majority is enough for such a person;
###### v7
so now instead you should forgive and console him, so that he may not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.
###### v8
So I urge you to reaffirm your love for him.
###### v9
I wrote for this reason: to test you and to know whether you are obedient in everything.
###### v10
Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. What I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ.
###### v11
And we do this so that we may not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.
###### v12
When I came to Troas to proclaim the good news of Christ, a door was opened for me in the Lord;
###### v13
but my mind could not rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I said farewell to them and went on to Macedonia.
###### v14
But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads in every place the fragrance that comes from knowing him.
###### v15
For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing;
###### v16
to the one a fragrance from death to death, to the other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?
###### v17
For we are not peddlers of God's word like so many; but in Christ we speak as persons of sincerity, as persons sent from God and standing in his presence.

***

[[2Co-01|2 Corinthians - Chapter 1 ]] | [[2 Corinthians]] | [[2Co-03|2 Corinthians - Chapter 3 ]]
