# 2 Corinthians 6

[[2Co-05|2 Corinthians - Chapter 5 ]] | [[2 Corinthians]] | [[2Co-07|2 Corinthians - Chapter 7 ]]
***

###### v1
As we work together with him, we urge you also not to accept the grace of God in vain.
###### v2
For he says, "At an acceptable time I have listened to you, and on a day of salvation I have helped you." See, now is the acceptable time; see, now is the day of salvation!
###### v3
We are putting no obstacle in anyone's way, so that no fault may be found with our ministry,
###### v4
but as servants of God we have commended ourselves in every way: through great endurance, in afflictions, hardships, calamities,
###### v5
beatings, imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger;
###### v6
by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, holiness of spirit, genuine love,
###### v7
truthful speech, and the power of God; with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left;
###### v8
in honor and dishonor, in ill repute and good repute. We are treated as impostors, and yet are true;
###### v9
as unknown, and yet are well known; as dying, and see-- we are alive; as punished, and yet not killed;
###### v10
as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing everything.
###### v11
We have spoken frankly to you Corinthians; our heart is wide open to you.
###### v12
There is no restriction in our affections, but only in yours.
###### v13
In return-- I speak as to children-- open wide your hearts also.
###### v14
Do not be mismatched with unbelievers. For what partnership is there between righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship is there between light and darkness?
###### v15
What agreement does Christ have with Beliar? Or what does a believer share with an unbeliever?
###### v16
What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, "I will live in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
###### v17
Therefore come out from them, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch nothing unclean; then I will welcome you,
###### v18
and I will be your father, and you shall be my sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty."

***

[[2Co-05|2 Corinthians - Chapter 5 ]] | [[2 Corinthians]] | [[2Co-07|2 Corinthians - Chapter 7 ]]
