# 2 Chronicles 33

[[2Ch-32|2 Chronicles - Chapter 32 ]] | [[2 Chronicles]] | [[2Ch-34|2 Chronicles - Chapter 34 ]]
***

###### v1
Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign; he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
###### v2
He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to the abominable practices of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
###### v3
For he rebuilt the high places that his father Hezekiah had pulled down, and erected altars to the Baals, made sacred poles, worshiped all the host of heaven, and served them.
###### v4
He built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, "In Jerusalem shall my name be forever."
###### v5
He built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD.
###### v6
He made his son pass through fire in the valley of the son of Hinnom, practiced soothsaying and augury and sorcery, and dealt with mediums and with wizards. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger.
###### v7
The carved image of the idol that he had made he set in the house of God, of which God said to David and to his son Solomon, "In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever;
###### v8
I will never again remove the feet of Israel from the land that I appointed for your ancestors, if only they will be careful to do all that I have commanded them, all the law, the statutes, and the ordinances given through Moses."
###### v9
Manasseh misled Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that they did more evil than the nations whom the LORD had destroyed before the people of Israel.
###### v10
The LORD spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they gave no heed.
###### v11
Therefore the LORD brought against them the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria, who took Manasseh captive in manacles, bound him with fetters, and brought him to Babylon.
###### v12
While he was in distress he entreated the favor of the LORD his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his ancestors.
###### v13
He prayed to him, and God received his entreaty, heard his plea, and restored him again to Jerusalem and to his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD indeed was God.
###### v14
Afterward he built an outer wall for the city of David west of Gihon, in the valley, reaching the entrance at the Fish Gate; he carried it around Ophel, and raised it to a very great height. He also put commanders of the army in all the fortified cities in Judah.
###### v15
He took away the foreign gods and the idol from the house of the LORD, and all the altars that he had built on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem, and he threw them out of the city.
###### v16
He also restored the altar of the LORD and offered on it sacrifices of well-being and of thanksgiving; and he commanded Judah to serve the LORD the God of Israel.
###### v17
The people, however, still sacrificed at the high places, but only to the LORD their God.
###### v18
Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of the LORD God of Israel, these are in the Annals of the Kings of Israel.
###### v19
His prayer, and how God received his entreaty, all his sin and his faithlessness, the sites on which he built high places and set up the sacred poles and the images, before he humbled himself, these are written in the records of the seers.
###### v20
So Manasseh slept with his ancestors, and they buried him in his house. His son Amon succeeded him.
###### v21
Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign; he reigned two years in Jerusalem.
###### v22
He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his father Manasseh had done. Amon sacrificed to all the images that his father Manasseh had made, and served them.
###### v23
He did not humble himself before the LORD, as his father Manasseh had humbled himself, but this Amon incurred more and more guilt.
###### v24
His servants conspired against him and killed him in his house.
###### v25
But the people of the land killed all those who had conspired against King Amon; and the people of the land made his son Josiah king to succeed him.

***

[[2Ch-32|2 Chronicles - Chapter 32 ]] | [[2 Chronicles]] | [[2Ch-34|2 Chronicles - Chapter 34 ]]
