# 2 Chronicles 17

[[2Ch-16|2 Chronicles - Chapter 16 ]] | [[2 Chronicles]] | [[2Ch-18|2 Chronicles - Chapter 18 ]]
***

###### v1
His son Jehoshaphat succeeded him, and strengthened himself against Israel.
###### v2
He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had taken.
###### v3
The LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the earlier ways of his father; he did not seek the Baals,
###### v4
but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments, and not according to the ways of Israel.
###### v5
Therefore the LORD established the kingdom in his hand. All Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor.
###### v6
His heart was courageous in the ways of the LORD; and furthermore he removed the high places and the sacred poles from Judah.
###### v7
In the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.
###### v8
With them were the Levites, Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah; and with these Levites, the priests Elishama and Jehoram.
###### v9
They taught in Judah, having the book of the law of the LORD with them; they went around through all the cities of Judah and taught among the people.
###### v10
The fear of the LORD fell on all the kingdoms of the lands around Judah, and they did not make war against Jehoshaphat.
###### v11
Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and silver for tribute; and the Arabs also brought him seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred male goats.
###### v12
Jehoshaphat grew steadily greater. He built fortresses and storage cities in Judah.
###### v13
He carried out great works in the cities of Judah. He had soldiers, mighty warriors, in Jerusalem.
###### v14
This was the muster of them by ancestral houses: Of Judah, the commanders of the thousands: Adnah the commander, with three hundred thousand mighty warriors,
###### v15
and next to him Jehohanan the commander, with two hundred eighty thousand,
###### v16
and next to him Amasiah son of Zichri, a volunteer for the service of the LORD, with two hundred thousand mighty warriors.
###### v17
Of Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty warrior, with two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield,
###### v18
and next to him Jehozabad with one hundred eighty thousand armed for war.
###### v19
These were in the service of the king, besides those whom the king had placed in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.

***

[[2Ch-16|2 Chronicles - Chapter 16 ]] | [[2 Chronicles]] | [[2Ch-18|2 Chronicles - Chapter 18 ]]
