# 2 Chronicles 4

[[2Ch-03|2 Chronicles - Chapter 3 ]] | [[2 Chronicles]] | [[2Ch-05|2 Chronicles - Chapter 5 ]]
***

###### v1
He made an altar of bronze, twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and ten cubits high.
###### v2
Then he made the molten sea; it was round, ten cubits from rim to rim, and five cubits high. A line of thirty cubits would encircle it completely.
###### v3
Under it were panels all around, each of ten cubits, surrounding the sea; there were two rows of panels, cast when it was cast.
###### v4
It stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east; the sea was set on them. The hindquarters of each were toward the inside.
###### v5
Its thickness was a handbreadth; its rim was made like the rim of a cup, like the flower of a lily; it held three thousand baths.
###### v6
He also made ten basins in which to wash, and set five on the right side, and five on the left. In these they were to rinse what was used for the burnt offering. The sea was for the priests to wash in.
###### v7
He made ten golden lampstands as prescribed, and set them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north.
###### v8
He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the right side and five on the left. And he made one hundred basins of gold.
###### v9
He made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court; he overlaid their doors with bronze.
###### v10
He set the sea at the southeast corner of the house.
###### v11
And Huram made the pots, the shovels, and the basins. Thus Huram finished the work that he did for King Solomon on the house of God:
###### v12
the two pillars, the bowls, and the two capitals on the top of the pillars; and the two latticeworks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars;
###### v13
the four hundred pomegranates for the two latticeworks, two rows of pomegranates for each latticework, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars.
###### v14
He made the stands, the basins on the stands,
###### v15
the one sea, and the twelve oxen underneath it.
###### v16
The pots, the shovels, the forks, and all the equipment for these Huram-abi made of burnished bronze for King Solomon for the house of the LORD.
###### v17
In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah.
###### v18
Solomon made all these things in great quantities, so that the weight of the bronze was not determined.
###### v19
So Solomon made all the things that were in the house of God: the golden altar, the tables for the bread of the Presence,
###### v20
the lampstands and their lamps of pure gold to burn before the inner sanctuary, as prescribed;
###### v21
the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of purest gold;
###### v22
the snuffers, basins, ladles, and firepans, of pure gold. As for the entrance to the temple: the inner doors to the most holy place and the doors of the nave of the temple were of gold.

***

[[2Ch-03|2 Chronicles - Chapter 3 ]] | [[2 Chronicles]] | [[2Ch-05|2 Chronicles - Chapter 5 ]]
